---
layout: post
title:      "Why I am Interested in (/like) Software Engineering"
date:       2019-12-09 11:38:33 -0500
permalink:  why_i_am_interested_in_software_engineering
---


I am interested in software engineering because it helps me to create useful , good creations for the benefit of all matter.

I had ideas about hardware and software projects but'they seem to be mostly in prototype stage until I pick up the courage to show it to a trusted friend , after which the "friend(s)" confess that they have posted the idea on a forum or that they have disclosed it to someone else and that idea is now a multi billion dollar caricature of something I was working on (but never had the finances , time, peace, support to bring it to market) and then I watch someone else bring the idea & prototype to the market (after which I would watch forlornly from afar).


As a result I am interested in other aspects of life like storytelling, acting, filmmaking, philosophy etc. but perhaps I don't want to disclose my interests, likes and dislikes. My parents warned me as I grew up on various sheltered  military bases around the world (in the MidEast primarily) that I ought not to disclose what I liked or disliked because people will use it against me. I never encountered such a people until I came to a  specific part of the new world  where folk are innocent & so are the lands & yet (in a recently observed phenom thanks to some undesirable cultural imports from the 3rd world) where people actually do that to one another. They find out what annoys a person and then they harp on it to further exacerbate a situation, using their likes/dislikes against them.  

For example I disclosed to a medical health professional that I did not wish to disclose personal information to her over the phone and this somehow made it to the larger health care community of the area (where everyone lives down the road from their cousins and went to the same high school as their college-roommates). From that point onwards every receptionist at a dermatologists or dentists would ask me about personal information teasingly even using phrases like, "I was not really discussing his personal information" etc. Phone calls to the health care providers only ended up with the health care providers getting in on it. 

But where did I first see evidence or variation of this behavior? I heard a prominent politician speak of illegal immigrants so , "we will make their lives so difficult that they will gladly wish to leave the US". I did not think much of it because after all these illegal entrants were bringing drugs and crime and violence into their host country besides breaking the law. But I have noticed a pattern in the many classes I have attended at various universities throughout (state schools and not so illustrious departments at Ivy league Universities) : to be a good student or good anything is perhaps to invite an attack on our likes and expect an encounter with our dislikes. 

As a top student I was used to raising my hand and answering every question but only in a very prominent and large state university did it seem to upset my Professor. After which, I found my thinking muddled and I ended up making involuntary errors in my answers after raising my hand. It resulted in a decline in my enthusiasm and my affection and liking for a subject. As they say in the song "Hey, you have gotto hide your love away".

Most recently a popular Professor at a lesser known department at an Ivy  forwarded my writings on economics to the Dean of our department saying  "I appreciate your enthusiasm" and then stating that my statements were "offensive" . He was kind enough to pick phrases out of context and portray them in the worst possible light . I was nearly suspended from my final class at Guaterad school and spent a night awakening/ crying over the misunderstanding. When I was suspended from attending class I wrote a lengthy defense of my statements (something I was hoping to avoid) and the Dean who happened to have a background in philosophy, history & economics completely exonerated me, calling my intentions 'good and honorable' and called me as someone with a "good heart" in person. This from a scholar educated at Oxford & Cambridge was consoling. But my enthusiasm for the subject and liking for it was certainly influenced.

As an outsider living in this world some people no longer push others into gas chambers but some chip away at our likes & enthusiasms and harp on our dislikes to the extent that a quick death in a gas chamber feels like a preferable and more compassionate option.  If we are not attractive enough then make us so. If we are not attractive enough because there is something wrong with our morality or spirit then give us the right spirit and morality. If we are not good enough to embrace the right spirit or morality then give us a quick end but let us be as fair as the fairest & live the highest quality of life , the best quality of life in love with the fairest & most beautiful of folk. 

My resolution is not that I will force people to love & embrace me ("so I may leave a better world for the children") but my resolve is *to become a better, lovable, worthy, beautiful person myself first* rather than foist more of my kind upon the fairest & comeliest (and exacerbate the over population and over crowding) and demand that I and my undesirable phenotype & genotype be also loved (or force people to love me).  The idea is not to foist disparity upon the next generation in the guise of diversity but to truly ask for parity (as opposed to compensation). Justice or eusticia (equality) is not about compensation nor about "love me as I am" but it is perhaps about "help me rise upstream or elsewhere to become as fair & comely as your peoples" & that will "help the future generation" more than confusing disparity for diversity & demanding love despite the inequity (in an inorganic/unnatural manner).

I am hoping every part of my life and matter beautifies me inside and out to permit me to be gorgeous, to love (and be loved), to prosper myself (and others) and live life to the fullest and to the most beautiful extent.

I am grateful that we can all learn programming languages but I hope one day we can also learn human languages like German, Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Russian etc. so we may communicate with the fairest of human beings in mutual love, affection, edification, joy.  Yes, the fairest, most loving human beings are the preference of even us outsiders, apparently (by the grace of God).

Some people may say that we engineers are not good looking enough to spend our days interacting with, loving & rejoicing with other beautiful human beings and therefore must spend time staring into LCD screens. If that is the case then may we too become beautiful inside & outside As Schiller said "Es ist der Geist, der sich den Körper baut" (Its the spirit that makes the body/face beautiful). May we too be as beautiful as Schiller & his beautiful peoples . So we may converse with the Pope in Latin, in German with Toni Garn (& Pope Benedict), in Hebrew with Bar Rafaeli, our Jewish friends (& God), read Plato, Aristotle, Herodotus & Plutarch in Greek (as well as the New Testament) etc. & see the beauty of the fair Russian peoples in their language.
